Welcome to all!
We have with us Brother Robert Luccioni,
a helper to the Publishing Committee,
to read our scripture text for today.
Today is Saturday, March 27.
The text is taken from Romans 8:16:
“The spirit itself
“bears witness with our spirit
that we are God’s children.”
Thank you, Rob.
It is my great pleasure
to welcome all of you
in our worldwide brotherhood
to our Morning Worship program.
And what a very special day
this is for all of us!
After sundown tonight
will be the equivalent of Nisan 14
according to the ancient Jewish calendar.
On Nisan 14, 33 C.E.,
in harmony with Jehovah’s will,
Jesus willingly gave his perfect human life.
He did this to redeem mankind
from the sin of Adam, our first human father.
Likely, all of us are familiar
with the account
of Adam and Eve,
our original earthly parents.
When Adam was created,
he had the prospect of living forever.
That was Jehovah’s original purpose.
Of course, Jehovah made it very clear
that his enjoyment of everlasting life
was dependent on his obedience.
A simple, noncomplicated,
easy-to-follow test of obedience
was established:
‘Don’t eat from one tree in the garden.’
Sadly, we all know what happened.
Under the influence
of a renegade spirit creature,
Satan the Devil,
Eve partook of the fruit of that tree,
and Adam
foolishly could not resist her offer,
and he did the same.
By disobeying God,
Adam lost the prospect of everlasting life.
But now, how did that affect us?
For the answer, please go to Romans chapter 5
and let’s read verse number 12:
“That is why, just as through one man [Adam]
“sin entered into the world
and death through sin,
“and so death spread to all men
because they had all sinned—.”
You’ll notice
that death came from sinful Adam;
it didn’t come from Jehovah.
Just as a serious genetic defect
can be passed on to one’s offspring,
when Adam and Eve had children,
they passed on the death sentence.
But did you notice that long dash
at the end of verse 12 that we just read?
Why is it there?
It’s because in Greek,
Paul did not complete his thought.
He left a cliff-hanger.
In Greek, whenever a sentence
starts with the words “just as,”
it should conclude with a clause
that includes the words “so also,”
thus completing the thought.
Well, in verse 12, Paul makes clear
who is responsible for death.
“Just as through one man . . . ,
death spread.”
But he leaves the resolution
of the problem hanging.
However, in verse 19,
using the same Greek grammar,
Paul now completes the thought
with “so also,”
thereby completing
(we could say) the cliff-hanger.
Let’s read verse 19:
“For just as through the disobedience
of the one man
“many were made sinners,
“so also
“through the obedience
of the one person
many will be made righteous.”
Yes, Jesus is identified as the solution.
Thanks to Jesus
giving his life in our behalf,
now we have the hope of everlasting life.
Some have the hope
of everlasting life in heaven,
but the vast majority
have the hope
of living forever in perfection
on a beautifully restored earth.
After all,
that was Jehovah’s original purpose
for the earth
—was it not?—
and whatever Jehovah starts,
he finishes.
But now, our text for today, Romans 8:16,
is referring to those who have the hope
of everlasting life in heaven,
serving alongside Christ
in his Messianic Kingdom.
Let’s read it again together.
Romans 8:16:
“The spirit itself
bears witness with our spirit
that we are God’s children.”
But how does God’s spirit
‘bear witness’ with a person
so that he knows he has been anointed
for a future role in heaven?
Well, to reason on this,
let’s go to the book of Acts.
And first, if you will,
just scan Acts 1:4, 5,
which tell us about how Jesus
appeared to his followers
a few days after he was resurrected
and instructed them to stay in Jerusalem
and wait for a special gift
—the holy spirit.
Well, true to Jesus’ words,
a few days later,
on the day of Pentecost,
holy spirit was poured out.
About 120 disciples
were assembled in an upper room,
and when that holy spirit filled them,
it was spectacular.
Let’s read about it in Acts chapter 2,
beginning in verse 2:
“Suddenly there was a noise from heaven,
“just like that of a rushing, stiff breeze,
“and it filled the whole house
where they were sitting.
“And tongues as if of fire
“became visible to them
“and were distributed,
“and one came to rest on each one of them,
“and they all became filled with holy spirit
“and started to speak in different languages,
just as the spirit enabled them to speak.”
These 120 disciples
became the first ones
to be anointed by holy spirit
and given the hope of ruling
with Jesus in heaven.
Obviously,
they would never forget that experience.
For a certainty,
there was no question in their minds
that God’s spirit
bore witness with their spirit.
But now,
what about after that momentous event?
Would all of those chosen
to be with Christ in heaven
have some miraculous display,
as did the 120?
The answer is no.
To reason on this point,
let’s go to verses 37 and 38
of Acts chapter 2,
which talk about what happened to thousands
who became new anointed disciples later
on that very same day of Pentecost.
Notice, beginning in verse 37:
“Now when they heard this,
they were stabbed to the heart,
“and they said to Peter
and the rest of the apostles:
“‘Men, brothers, what should we do?’
“Peter said to them: ‘Repent,
“‘and let each one of you be baptized
“‘in the name of Jesus Christ
for forgiveness of your sins,
and you will receive
the free gift of the holy spirit.’”
Well, verse 41 indicates
there were about 3,000 who were baptized.
But did you notice
that even though they were anointed
by holy spirit after their baptism,
they did not experience
any of the spectacular manifestations
that the 120 had experienced
earlier that very same day?
But now this raises another question:
Does this account mean
that newly anointed ones
will have God’s spirit
bear witness with their spirit
on the day of their baptism?
Again, the answer is no.
To reason on this,
please go to Acts chapter 8
and lets notice a very interesting account
that begins in verse 14:
“When the apostles in Jerusalem heard
“that Samaria had accepted the word of God,
“they sent Peter and John to them;
“and these went down
and prayed for them
“to get holy spirit.
“For it had not yet come
upon any one of them,
“but they had only been baptized
in the name of the Lord Jesus.
“Then they laid their hands on them,
and they began to receive holy spirit.”
Well, these verses describe
how the spirit bearing witness
with these anointed ones in Samaria
occurred sometime after their baptism,
and that is what occurs in our time.
Jehovah’s spirit
bears witness with the person
sometime after his baptism
and after he or she has had an opportunity
to establish a course of faithfulness.
But now we ask:
How does a person know clearly
whether he or she has the heavenly calling?
Well, please go to 1 John chapter 2,
and let’s get some help with that question.
First John 2:20:
“And you have an anointing from the holy one,
and all of you have knowledge.”
Such ones “have knowledge”;
they know for a certainty
they’ve been anointed.
Now look at verse 27:
“And as for you,
“the anointing that you received from him
“remains in you,
“and you do not need anyone
to be teaching you;
“but the anointing from him is teaching you
about all things and is true and is no lie.”
So anointed ones don’t need
confirmation from anyone else;
their anointing is clear, true, affirmative.
Think about it:
The holy spirit
is the most powerful force in the universe.
Jehovah used it to create
the sun, moon, stars.
He used it to create
all life in heaven and earth.
He also used it
to communicate his message
to the Bible writers.
In fact,
Jehovah is the greatest Communicator
in the universe.
So if his powerful holy spirit
bears witness with a person,
he is not going to communicate,
“Maybe you have been called to heavenly life”
—leaving the person
in doubt, a dilemma, a quandary.
No, it is going to be
an absolute, affirmative communication
—leaving the person
with no question in his mind or heart.
So if a person is wondering
if he is anointed or not,
the answer is obvious, isn’t it?
He is not.
But what about the millions
who do not have this change of hope
communicated to them by God’s spirit?
Well, they have the glorious hope
that Jehovah originally purposed for mankind
—before there was any need
for humans to be adopted to the heavens—
everlasting life in a paradise earth.
In fact,
just a few verses after our text for today,
at Romans 8:21,
it says of human creation:
“The creation itself
“will also be set free
from enslavement to corruption
“and have the glorious freedom
of the children of God.”
So whether our hope
is life in heaven or life on earth,
how all of us
as Jehovah’s people worldwide look forward
to our marvelous hope of everlasting life!
And later today, after sundown,
when we observe the memorial
of the Lord’s Evening Meal,
we will commemorate (remember)
the two greatest acts of love
that have ever been shown
that make our wonderful hope possible.
But now let’s ask Brother Robert Luccioni
to read the Watchtower  comments
on our scripture for today.
“How does a person know
that he or she has the heavenly calling?
“The answer is clearly seen
in the apostle Paul’s words to those in Rome
“who were ‘called to be holy ones.’
“In addition to the words of today’s text,
he told them:
“‘You did not receive
a spirit of slavery causing fear again,
“‘but you received
a spirit of adoption as sons,
“by which spirit we cry out:
“Abba, Father!”’
“So by means of his holy spirit,
“God makes it clear to anointed ones
“that they have this heavenly calling.
“Jehovah leaves no doubt whatsoever
in the minds and hearts
“of those who receive
his invitation to go to heaven.
Anointed Christians do not need anyone
to confirm that they are anointed.″
Thank you very much, Rob.
Now we look forward
to our Memorial Bible reading for today.
We will have the daytime events
of Nisan 13 read
from Luke chapter 22
and Mark chapter 14.
Then the events after sundown,
which would have been Nisan 14,
will be read from the latter part
of Luke chapter 22.
The specific texts will appear
on screen in your own language.
“The day of the Unleavened Bread now arrived,
“on which the Passover sacrifice
must be offered;
“so Jesus sent Peter and John,
“saying: ‘Go and get the Passover
ready for us to eat.’
“They said to him:
“‘Where do you want us to get it ready?’
“He said to them:
“‘Look! When you enter into the city,
“‘a man carrying an earthenware water jar
will meet you.
“‘Follow him into the house that he enters.
“‘And say to the landlord of the house,
“‘“The Teacher says to you:
“‘“‘Where is the guest room where I may eat
the Passover with my disciples?’”
“‘And that man will show you
“‘a large, furnished upper room.
“Get it ready there.’
“So they left and found it
just as he had told them,
and they prepared for the Passover.”
“Now on the first day
of the Unleavened Bread,
“when they customarily offered up
the Passover sacrifice,
“his disciples said to him:
“‘Where do you want us to go
and prepare for you to eat the Passover?’
“With that he sent two of his disciples
and said to them:
“‘Go into the city,
“‘and a man carrying
an earthenware water jar will meet you.
“‘Follow him, and wherever he goes inside,
“‘say to the master of the house,
“‘“The Teacher says:
“‘“‘Where is the guest room where I may eat
the Passover with my disciples?’”
“‘And he will show you
“‘a large upper room, furnished and ready.
“Prepare it for us there.’
“So the disciples went out,
“and they entered the city
“and found it just as he said to them,
and they prepared for the Passover.”
“So when the hour came,
“he reclined at the table
along with the apostles.
“And he said to them:
“‘I have greatly desired to eat
this Passover with you
“‘before I suffer;
“‘for I tell you,
I will not eat it again
“until it is fulfilled
in the Kingdom of God.’
“And accepting a cup,
he gave thanks and said:
“‘Take this and pass it
from one to the other among yourselves,
“‘for I tell you, from now on,
“‘I will not drink again
from the product of the vine
“until the Kingdom of God comes.’
“Also, he took a loaf,
“gave thanks, broke it,
“and gave it to them, saying:
“‘This means my body,
“‘which is to be given in your behalf.
“Keep doing this in remembrance of me.’
“Also, he did the same with the cup
“after they had the evening meal, saying:
“‘This cup means the new covenant
“‘by virtue of my blood,
“‘which is to be poured out in your behalf.
“‘But look! the hand of my betrayer
is with me at the table.
“‘For, indeed,
the Son of man is going his way
“‘according to what has been determined;
“‘all the same,
“woe to that man
through whom he is betrayed!’
“So they began to discuss among themselves
“which one of them
could really be about to do this.
“However, there also arose
a heated dispute among them
“over which one of them
was considered to be the greatest.
“But he said to them:
“‘The kings of the nations lord it over them,
“‘and those having authority over them
“‘are called Benefactors.
“‘You, though,
“‘are not to be that way.
“‘But let the one
who is the greatest among you
“‘become as the youngest,
“‘and the one taking the lead
as the one ministering.
“‘For which one is greater,
“‘the one dining or the one serving?
“‘Is it not the one dining?
“‘But I am among you as the one serving.
“‘However, you are the ones
“‘who have stuck with me in my trials;
“‘and I make a covenant with you,
“‘just as my Father has made
a covenant with me, for a kingdom,
“‘so that you may eat and drink
at my table in my Kingdom,
“‘and sit on thrones
to judge the 12 tribes of Israel.
“‘Simon, Simon, look!
“‘Satan has demanded to have all of you
“‘to sift you as wheat.
“‘But I have made supplication for you
“‘that your faith may not give out;
“‘and you, once you have returned,
“strengthen your brothers.’
“Then he said to him:
“‘Lord, I am ready to go with you
both to prison and to death.’
“But he said:
“‘I tell you, Peter,
a rooster will not crow today
“until you have denied
knowing me three times.’
“He also said to them:
“‘When I sent you out without a money bag
“‘and a food pouch and sandals,
“you did not lack anything, did you?’
“They said: ‘No!’
“Then he said to them:
“‘But now let the one
who has a money bag take it,
“‘likewise a food pouch,
“‘and let the one who has no sword
“‘sell his outer garment and buy one.
“‘For I tell you that what is written
“‘must be accomplished in me, namely,
“‘“He was counted with lawless ones.”
“For this is being fulfilled concerning me.’
“Then they said:
“‘Lord, look! here are two swords.’
“He said to them:
“‘It is enough.’
“On leaving, he went as was his custom
“to the Mount of Olives,
and the disciples also followed him.
“On arriving at the place, he said to them:
“‘Carry on prayer
so that you do not enter into temptation.’
“And he withdrew from them
about a stone’s throw away,
“and he bent his knees
“and began to pray, saying:
“‘Father, if you want to,
“‘remove this cup from me.
“‘Nevertheless, let, not my will,
“but yours take place.’
“Then an angel from heaven
“appeared to him and strengthened him.
“But he was in such agony
“that he kept praying more earnestly;
“and his sweat became as drops of blood
“falling to the ground.
“When he rose from prayer
and went to the disciples,
“he found them slumbering,
exhausted from grief.
“He said to them:
“‘Why are you sleeping?
“‘Get up and keep praying,
“so that you do not enter into temptation.’
“While he was still speaking,
“look! a crowd,
“and the man called Judas,
“one of the Twelve, was leading them,
“and he approached Jesus to kiss him.
“But Jesus said to him:
“‘Judas, are you betraying
the Son of man with a kiss?’
“When those around him saw
what was going to happen, they said:
“‘Lord, should we strike with the sword?’
“One of them even struck
the slave of the high priest,
“taking off his right ear.
“But in reply Jesus said:
“‘That is enough.’
“And he touched the ear and healed him.
“Jesus then said to the chief priests
“and captains of the temple
“and elders who had come there for him:
“‘Did you come out with swords and clubs
“‘as against a robber?
“‘While I was with you
in the temple day after day,
“‘you did not lay your hands on me.
“But this is your hour
and the authority of darkness.’
“Then they arrested him and led him off,
“and they brought him
into the house of the high priest;
“but Peter was following at a distance.
“When they lit a fire
in the middle of the courtyard
“and sat down together,
“Peter was sitting among them.
“But a servant girl,
“seeing him sitting in the light of the fire,
“looked closely at him and said:
“‘This man was also with him.’
“But he denied it, saying:
“‘I do not know him, woman.’
“After a short time
“another person saw him and said:
“‘You too are one of them.’
“But Peter said:
“‘Man, I am not.’
“And after about an hour had passed,
“another man began insisting strongly:
“‘Certainly this man was also with him,
“for he is, in fact, a Gal·i·leʹan!’
“But Peter said:
“‘Man, I do not know what you are saying.’
“And instantly,
“while he was still speaking,
a rooster crowed.
“At this the Lord turned
and looked straight at Peter,
“and Peter recalled the statement of the Lord
“when he had said to him:
“‘Before a rooster crows today,
“you will disown me three times.’
“And he went outside and wept bitterly.
“Now the men who held Jesus in custody
“began to mock him, hitting him;
“and after covering his face,
“they kept asking:
“‘Prophesy!
Who is it that struck you?’
And they said
many other blasphemous things against him.”
Well, it has truly been a delight
to speak today
with millions of you dear ones
around the world
—you precious sheep in Jehovah’s flock.
Be assured
that we love you all very, very much.
And may Jehovah
be with all of us this evening
as we gather together,
physically if possible,
but especially as we all
gather together in spirit
to commemorate
the most important event of the year
—the Memorial of Christ’s death,
which is an incomparable gift
from our Father, Jehovah.